[DOCS] Add top-level Data management section. (#64185)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/datatiers.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[[data-tiers]]
== Data tiers

A _data tier_ is a collection of nodes with the same data role that 
typically share the same hardware profile: 

* <<content-tier, Content tier>> nodes handle the indexing and query load for content such as a product catalog.
* <<hot-tier, Hot tier>> nodes handle the indexing load for time series data such as logs or metrics
and hold your most recent, most-frequently-accessed data. 
* <<warm-tier, Warm tier>> nodes hold time series data that is accessed less-frequently 
and rarely needs to be updated.

> * <<cold-tier, Cold tier>> nodes hold time series data that is accessed occasionally and never updated.

Author: ```suggestion
* <<cold-tier, Cold tier>> nodes hold time series data that is accessed occasionally and not normally updated.
```

When you index documents directly to a specific index, they remain on content tier nodes indefinitely. 

When you index documents to a data stream, they initially reside on hot tier nodes. 
You can configure <<index-lifecycle-management, {ilm}>> ({ilm-init}) policies
to automatically transition your time series data through the hot, warm, and cold tiers 
according to your performance, resiliency and data retention requirements. 

> You assign a node to one or more data tiers by setting its <<data-node, data role>> in `elasticsearch.yml`. 
> For example, you might assign your highest-performance nodes to both the hot and content tiers:

Author: ```suggestion
A node's <<data-node, data role>> is configured in `elasticsearch.yml`. 
For example, the highest-performance nodes in a cluster might be assigned to both the hot and content tiers:
```

[role="xpack"]
[[data-tiers]]
=== Data tiers

Common data lifecycle management patterns revolve around transitioning indices
through multiple collections of nodes with different hardware characteristics in order
to fulfil evolving CRUD, search, and aggregation needs as indices age. The concept
of a tiered hardware architecture is not new in {es}.
<<index-lifecycle-management, Index Lifecycle Management>> is instrumental in
implementing tiered architectures by automating the managemnt of indices according to
performance, resiliency and data retention requirements.

> <<overview-index-lifecycle-management, Hot/warm/cold>> architectures are common

Reviewer: I believe we should still mention the hot/warm/cold architecture and how data tiers tie into it/drive the implementation further.

> * <<content-tier, Content tier>> nodes handle the indexing and query load for a collection 

Reviewer: as mentioned above, I believe we shouldn't use `collection of content`

> * <<content-tier, Content tier>> nodes handle the indexing and query load for a collection 
> of content such as a product catalog.

Author: ```suggestion
* <<content-tier, Content tier>> nodes handle the indexing and query load for content such as a product catalog.
```

and rarely needs to be updated.
* <<cold-tier, Cold tier>> nodes hold time series data that is accessed occasionally and never updated.

When you index documents directly to a specific index, they remain on content tier nodes indefinitely. 

When you index documents to a data stream, they initially reside on hot tier nodes. 
You can configure <<index-lifecycle-management, {ilm}>> ({ilm-init}) policies

> to automatically transition your time series  data through the hot, warm, and cold tiers 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to automatically transition your time series data through the hot, warm, and cold tiers 
```

according to your performance, resiliency and data retention requirements. 

> You assign a node to one or more data tiers by setting its <<data-node, data role>> in `elasticsearch.yml`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can assign a node to one or more data tiers by setting its <<data-node, data role>> in `elasticsearch.yml`. 
```

> For example, you might assign your highest-performance nodes to both the hot and content tiers:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, we might assign your highest-performance nodes to both the hot and content tiers:
```

Reviewer 2: I still believe this one should be changed to "we" since it is in the context of "talking about doing something"

[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------

> node.roles:
>    - data_hot
>    - data_content

Reviewer 2: In general, we stick to single-line arrays in our example `elasticsearch.yml`, so I think I'd prefer:

```suggestion
node.roles: ["data_hot", "data_content"]
```

--------------------------------------------------

[discrete]
[[content-tier]]
=== Content tier

> Data stored in the content tier is generally a collection of things such as a product catalog or article archive.

Reviewer: I think "collection of things" is very vague (eg. my mind went to internet of things generated data stored in mongodb). I believe "user-created content" describes the content data type more accurately.

Reviewer 2: I agree that things is too generic, I think "items" (or even "documents") would fit better.

> Data stored in the content tier is generally a collection of things such as a product catalog or article archive.

Author: ```suggestion
Data stored in the content tier is generally a collection of items such as a product catalog or article archive.
```

Unlike time series data, the value of the content remains relatively constant over time,
so it doesn't make sense to move it to a tier with different performance characteristics as it ages. 
Content data typically has long data retention requirements, and you want to be able to retrieve 
items quickly regardless of how old they are. 

> Content tier nodes are usually optimized for query performance--they prioritize processing power over IO throughput

Reviewer 2: :)

```suggestion
Content tier nodes are usually optimized for query performance—they prioritize processing power over IO throughput
```

Author: This renders the same, so I generally don't worry about it. :-)

> so they can process complex searches and aggregations and return results quickly.

Reviewer: Should this be split into multiple sentences? (ie. to avoid the need for "--")

Reviewer 2: I like it as a single sentence since the em dash signifies a relation between the two statements, almost like a colon. It's probably personal preference though :)

[discrete]
[[hot-tier]]
=== Hot tier

The hot tier is the {es} entry point for time series data and holds your most-recent, 
most-frequently-searched time series data. 
Nodes in the hot tier need to be fast for both reads and writes, 
which requires more hardware resources and faster storage (SSDs). 
For resiliency, indices in the hot tier should be configured to use one or more replicas.

New indices that are part of a <<data-streams, data stream>> are automatically allocated to the
hot tier.

[discrete]
[[warm-tier]]
=== Warm tier

Time series data can move to the warm tier once it is being queried less frequently 
than the recently-indexed data in the hot tier. 
The warm tier typically holds data from recent weeks. 
Updates are still allowed, but likely infrequent.
Nodes in the warm tier generally don't need to be as fast as those in the hot tier. 
For resiliency, indices in the warm tier should be configured to use one or more replicas.

[discrete]
[[cold-tier]]
=== Cold tier

Once data in the warm tier is no longer being updated, it can move to the cold tier. 
The cold tier typically holds the data from recent months or years.

> The cold tier is still a responsive query tier, but does not support updates.

Reviewer 2: We don't specifically make updates non-supported on the cold tier

```suggestion
The cold tier is still a responsive query tier, and data is usually never updated.
```

> The cold tier is still a responsive query tier, but does not support updates.

Author: ```suggestion
The cold tier is still a responsive query tier, but data in the cold tier is not normally updated.
```
